=== PAGE 1 ===
170
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 41, NO. 1, JANUARY 2023
Deep Learning-Enabled Semantic Communication
Systems With Task-Unaware Transmitter
and Dynamic Data
Hongwei Zhang, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Shuo Shao
, Member, IEEE, Meixia Tao
, Fellow, IEEE,
Xiaoyan Bi, and Khaled B. Letaief
, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Existing deep learning-enabled semantic commu-
nication systems often rely on shared background knowledge
between the transmitter and receiver that includes empirical
data and their associated semantic information. In practice, the
semantic information is deﬁned by the pragmatic task of the
receiver and cannot be known to the transmitter. The actual
observable data at the transmitter can also have non-identical
distribution with the empirical data in the shared background
knowledge library. To address these practical issues, this paper
proposes a new neural network-based semantic communication
system for image transmission, where the task is unaware at the
transmitter and the data environment is dynamic. The system
consists of two main parts, namely the semantic coding (SC)
network and the data adaptation (DA) network. The SC network
learns how to extract and transmit the semantic information
using a receiver-leading training process. By using the domain
adaptation technique from transfer learning, the DA network
learns how to convert the data observed into a similar form of
the empirical data that the SC network can process without re-
training. Numerical experiments show that the proposed method
can be adaptive to observable datasets while keeping high
performance in terms of both data recovery and task execution.
Index Terms—Task-unaware semantic communication, seman-
tic coding, domain adaptation.
I. INTRODUCTION
W
ITH the booming development of machine learning
(ML) and computer hardware, native intelligence is
envisioned to be an essential component of 6G mobile
networks [1]. As a new intelligence-enabled communication
paradigm, semantic communication, sometimes also called
task-oriented communication, has drawn lots of research inter-
est recently. By extracting and transmitting the information
Manuscript received 16 April 2022; revised 9 September 2022; accepted 7
October 2022. Date of publication 16 November 2022; date of current version
19 December 2022. This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Project of China under Grant 2019YFB1802702;
and in part by the NSF of China under Grant 62125108, Grant 61901261,
and Grant 12031011. (Corresponding authors: Shuo Shao; Meixia Tao.)
Hongwei Zhang, Shuo Shao, and Meixia Tao are with the School
of Electronic Information and Electric Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University,
Shanghai
200240,
China
(e-mail:
zhanghwei@sjtu.edu.cn;
shuoshao@sjtu.edu.cn; mxtao@sjtu.edu.cn).
Xiaoyan Bi is with the Ottawa Research Center, Huawei, Ottawa,
ON K2K 3J1, Canada (e-mail: bixiaoyan@huawei.com).
Khaled B. Letaief is with the Electronic and Computer Engineering Depart-
ment, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China
(e-mail: eekhaled@ust.hk).
Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSAC.2022.3221991.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JSAC.2022.3221991
that can best support the pragmatic task of the receiver, called
semantic information [2], semantic communication can signif-
icantly improve transmission efﬁciency and reliability [3], [4].
It is promising for a wide range of human-centric and machine-
centric applications, such as smart transportation, augmented
reality (AR), interactive hologram, and intelligent humanoid
robots.
Based on the information-theoretic formulation of semantic
communication in [5] and [6], a number of deep learning
(DL)-enabled semantic communication systems have been
proposed [2], [3], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12]. Despite the
difference in details, these systems share a common gen-
eral framework. Speciﬁcally, semantic information is regarded
as the hidden features of observable information, where
the relationship between semantic information and observ-
able information is not directly given. However, empirical
data tuple of observable information and associated semantic
information is provided in a large enough knowledge base.
Since the joint distribution between semantic information and
observable information could be too complicated to accurately
estimate by traditional methods, neural networks (NNs) are
hence deployed. They will be trained with the knowledge
base, learning how to extract the semantic information and
transmit it over communication channels [8], [9], [10]. This
NN-based semantic communication framework is capable of
processing various types of data, including images [9], vocal
speeches [11], language texts [2], etc. Compared to commu-
nication systems with traditional source and channel coding
algorithms applied, these NN-based semantic communica-
tions can largely improve the effectiveness of pragmatic task
execution such as classiﬁcation, detection, and other image
processing tasks, under the same transmitting rate.
However, it is worthwhile to mention that in many practical
scenarios, the original setup of fully shared background knowl-
edge with complete observable and semantic information does
not stand for granted. As pointed out in [2], semantic infor-
mation is the information that can best support the pragmatic
task of the receiver, which makes it task-oriented information
instead of an intrinsic property of the observable information.
For example, the pragmatic task on an image might be object
recognition, target detection and etc., and the corresponding
semantic information for these tasks is also different. Since
the pragmatic task is typically unknown to the transmitter,
the implementation of the training process at the transmitter
0733-8716 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEP LEARNING-ENABLED SEMANTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
171
and the receiver, which has been overlooked in many existing
works, is non-trivial. Ideally, the receiver can feed all of its
local empirical semantic information that is relevant to its
personalized tasks back to the transmitter. But this procedure
will have a high communication and time cost. It may also
suffer privacy concerns if the receiver does not want the
transmitter to know about its own pragmatic use of the data.
Meanwhile, as considered in [12], the distribution of the
transmitted data can be varying and different from that of
the original background knowledge. For example, the training
data may be drawn from the MNIST dataset, but the actual
transmit data may be drawn from the SVHN dataset, which
has a similar but different distribution from the previous one.
As the scalability of NN is limited, the performance of NN
will decline when the data distributions are changed. This is
similar to the over-ﬁtting phenomenon when the assumptions
of training samples are different from those of test samples.
Re-training
NN
can
improve
performance,
but
again,
it requires extra communication and computing overhead.
To address the above practical issues, in this paper, we focus
on a receiver-leading dynamic semantic communication sys-
tem, for image transmission in particular, where the transmit-
ter is unaware of the pragmatic task. Moreover, the neural
network training in this system is divided into two stages,
namely the preparation stage and the working stage, where
the actual observable data in the working stage has non-
identical distribution from the empirical data that is known
in the working stage as background knowledge. This setup
leads to two major challenges in the NN-based approach.
First, the receiver has to enlighten the transmitter on how
to encode semantic information and observable information
in the training process, since the receiver-speciﬁc empirical
semantic information is unknown to the transmitter and can-
not be sent to the transmitter either. Second, the semantic
communication strategy should be adaptive to accommodate
the possible difference between empirical data and observable
data. A transfer learning-based method is applied to accel-
erate the model re-training in [12], however, it still requires
extra communication between transmitter and receiver for the
transfer learning of the coder NNs.
In our considered semantic communication system with
the task-unaware transmitter in a dynamic data environment,
we propose a new neural network-based semantic communi-
cation framework to solve the two challenges above. There
are two goals in this semantic communication system, i.e.,
pragmatic task [9], [13] and observable information recon-
struction [10], [14]. The proposed framework consists of
a semantic coding network and a data adaptation network,
which are trained in two separated stages. More speciﬁcally,
in the ﬁrst stage the semantic coding network is jointly
trained at the transmitter and receiver to encode observable
information and decode accordingly based on the empirical
data in background knowledge whose semantic information
is known to the receiver only. In the second stage, the data
adaptation network is trained at the transmitter side only to
convert the newly observed type of data into the form of data
that the semantic coding network trained in the ﬁrst stage can
be re-used without re-training.
The main contribution of this paper is three-folded. First,
a receiver-leading training process, which is not considered
in most existing works, is proposed for the semantic coding
network with the task-unaware transmitter. With this process,
the receiver can coordinate the network training at the trans-
mitter, without announcing to the transmitter what the task
exactly is. Hence the transmitter can learn how to encode the
observable information with some limited feedback from the
receiver. As such, the focus is on the design of crucial feedback
information for network training at the transmitter without
disclosing the speciﬁc task carried out at the receiver, rather
than the design of speciﬁc NN architecture as considered in the
literature. Most existing works suppose that the knowledge of
the task is available to both the transmitter and the receiver,
they thus do not consider the training process of semantic
communication networks.
Second, a set of loss functions tailored for image transmis-
sion are proposed for this semantic coding network accord-
ingly. Though the structure of loss functions that consists
of bit-wised distortion measure and semantic-wised distor-
tion measure has already been proposed in some previous
works [8], [15], we sort the tasks into two categories based on
the output of the pragmatic function and propose the distortion
measure function for each category especially. Moreover,
an algorithm in the empirical sampling form for NN training
is also proposed accordingly, in order to ﬁt the theoretic loss
function in probabilistic form into our training process.
The third contribution is the introduction of the data adap-
tation network at the transmitter to tackle the issue with
different data environments. By using the domain adaptation
technique of transfer learning, this network can be trained
locally at the transmitter end without any communication to
the receiver needed, and with only a few shots of observable
data. Generally, the more similar the historical empirical data
is to the current observable data, the more efﬁcient our data
adaptation network will be. Hence, we also propose a theoretic
measure function to sketch this similarity between datasets.
Extensive numerical experiments are conducted in this paper
to verify the effectiveness of the proposed semantic commu-
nication system. First, it is demonstrated that the proposed
receiver-leading training process can well train the seman-
tic coding network for the receiver-speciﬁc pragmatic tasks,
including handwritten digit recognition, image classiﬁcation,
and image segmentation, with no direct information on prag-
matic tasks disclosed to the transmitter. It is also shown that,
with the proposed loss function design, the semantic coding
network is able to strike a ﬂexible balance between data
recovery performance, e.g. peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR),
and task execution performance, e.g., classiﬁcation accuracy,
in response to different compression rates, as compared with
existing schemes. The proposed scheme outperforms baseline
schemes, especially when the source is complex and the
channel condition is poor. Finally, when the observable dataset
is different from the library dataset, experimental results show
that the proposed data adaptation method without re-training
the semantic coding network signiﬁcantly outperforms the case
if no data adaptation is employed. Meanwhile, it also has a
very close performance to the ideal case with full retraining.
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
172
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 41, NO. 1, JANUARY 2023
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
related work is presented. In Section III, the formal problem
setup will be introduced. In Sections IV and V, we will
show the semantic coding network training process and the
data adaptation network design, respectively. In Section VI,
experimental results will be given. Finally, Section VII will
conclude the paper.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Deﬁnition of Semantic Information
In Carnap et al. [16] ﬁrst discovered a problem with
Shannon’s information theory, namely that a self-contradictory
sentence is supposed to contain a great deal of information in
Shannon’s information theory, yet the receiver will not accept
it and think this sentence has no information. Inspired by
this, a theory of strong semantic information based on truth
value rather than probability distribution was proposed [5],
[17]. Semantic information is also deﬁned as the syntactic
information that a physical system has about its environment
in [18], and as the relative importance of random information
sources in [19]. In addition, there are many other works
that have deﬁned semantic information from different aspects,
as described in [20], [21], [22], and [23].
B. NN-Based Semantic Communications
With
the
development
of
artiﬁcial
intelligence
(AI),
an increasing number of AI-enabled semantic communication
systems have been proposed, which can automatically learn
to extract and transmit semantic information based on the
data distribution, task, and channel status. Speciﬁcally, the
framework of semantic communication between intelligent
agents is proposed in [15]. A multi-semantic communication
system for the image classiﬁcation task with different granu-
larity is built based on a fully convolutional network in [8].
A multi-modal semantic communication system based on long
short term memory (LSTM) [24] is proposed in [2], which
can transmit both image and text simultaneously. Besides,
a multi-user semantic system is proposed, where partial users
transmit images while others transmit texts to inquire about the
information about the images [2]. A semantic signal processing
framework based on ResNet [25], which can be changed
between speciﬁc tasks easily, is
proposed in [26]. In the
Internet of Things (IoT), where the computing power of each
device is limited, a semantic communication system based on
ADNet [27] is proposed to transmit text in [28].
Given the above, one can see that AI-enabled methods can
train a variety of models for transmitting various kinds of data,
such as image [8], [29], video [30], speech [11], [31], and
text [32], [33]. These previous works utilize AI methods to
jointly train neural networks (NNs) as semantic encoders and
decoders to recover the semantic information, in terms of some
given measure such as Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence or
quadratic loss [8], [10]. This method has proved to be effective
in many practical cases when the semantic information is
labeled in advance as ground truth [7], [9].
C. Previous Works on Domain Adaptation
Another important area touched in this paper is domain
adaptation (DA). As a special kind of transfer learning [34],
DA fulﬁlls new tasks by transforming the samples in the source
domains into the samples in the related target domain [35].
DA is commonly used in computer vision because the domain
of the dataset for training and that for inference in the tasks
are often different. As such, DA is naturally suitable to solve
the mismatch issues between the actual observable dataset and
the empirical dataset considered in this paper.
Recent advances on DA can be categorized as follows:
• DA based on divergence, which is implemented by mini-
mizing the divergence between the data distribution in the
source domain and the target domain to achieve domain-
invariant feature representation [36], [37], [38].
• DA based on reconstruction, which not only can learn
to correctly identify the target data, but can also save
information about the target data [39], [40], [41].
• Adversarial DA, which utilizes generative adversarial
networks (GAN) to generate synthetic target data related
to the source domain (for example by retaining labels)
[35], [42], [43].
Among the above DA methods, adversarial DA will be
adopted in our work. Speciﬁcally, we will utilize the GAN
to generate the data to ensure that the receiver can understand
and execute the task accordingly.
III. SYSTEM MODEL
In this section, we give the formal introduction of our
proposed DL-enabled semantic communication system with
a task-unaware transmitter in the dynamic data environment,
including the physical communication model and the proposed
learning model.
The overall system architecture is shown in Fig. 1. There
is a dataset called “observation space” S, whose empirical
knowledge is unknown at the transmitter prior to system oper-
ation. There is also another dataset called “library dataset” K,
which is a collection of empirical data K and its corresponding
pragmatic task Z from background knowledge. Our system
works in two stages, namely the preparation stage and the
working stage. In the preparation stage, the transmitter and
receiver train the coder networks collectively with the empiri-
cal data K. While in the working stage, the transmitter further
trains the data adaptation network with both the empirical data
K and the observable data S. The alphabet of S, K and Z
are denoted as ΓS, ΓK, and ΓZ, respectively. In this paper,
we focus on image data in RGB format. Hence, both S and
K are modeled as sequences of three-dimensional vectors with
8-bit symbols. As a remark, the empirical data K is known
by both the transmitter and receiver, while its pragmatic task
Z is only available to the receiver. Meanwhile, the empirical
data K and observable data S may be drawn from different
observation spaces. To our best knowledge, a knowledge
base with different access levels has not been considered in
the existing literature on semantic communications. Though
semantic communications with a dynamic data environment
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEP LEARNING-ENABLED SEMANTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
173
Fig. 1.
Illustration of the main parts in the proposed semantic communication system.
have been studied in [12], however, their method cannot be
applied here due to the privacy requirement in our model.
The data communication process of this system is as fol-
lows. The goal of the transmitter is to send some data to
the receiver for both pragmatic task use and observable data
recovery. When the receiver initiates a data request, the trans-
mitter will sample data S from the observation space. If the
observation space and the library set indeed follow different
distributions, the sampled data S will be converted into a
different form of data, denoted by S, by a function GK(·) as
S = GK(S). The transferred data S, which is in a similar form
to the empirical data K, will be encoded by an encoder f(·) to
get the channel input X, whose alphabet is denoted as ΓX. For
the image source with RGB format, both the sampled data S
and the empirical data K are modeled as a sequence of three-
dimensional vectors with 8-bit symbols. In order to coincide
with the RGB format image source, the channel input X is
also set as a sequence of the three-dimensional vectors with
8-bit symbols. As such, the compression rate can be deﬁned
as CR = log |ΓX |/ log |ΓK|, which is equivalent to the ratio
between image resolution and the sequence length of channel
input. The encoded signal X will be transmitted through
an AWGN channel, where the channel output is denoted as
Y = X + N. The power of channel noise N is ﬁxed but
unknown. Upon receiving Y , the receiver can reconstruct a
distorted version of observable data as S according to decoder
g(·), and further reconstruct a distorted pragmatic task output
Z by pragmatic task function φ(·).
In our approach, the data converting function, the encoding
function, and the decoding functions, namely GK(·), f(·),
g(·), are all realized by neural networks. Meanwhile, in this
paper, we set the pragmatic function φ(·) as a given one. It can
be regarded as the mathematical abstraction of the pragmatic
task, while how to obtain it is not the focus of this paper.
As mentioned, the three networks are trained in two stages
sequentially. The ﬁrst stage is the preparation stage, which is
before the appearance of observable data. In this stage, the
encoder f(·) and the decoder g(·) are jointly trained, based
on the library dataset K. The joint source-channel coding
(JSCC)-based semantic communication in this paper can also
be regarded as task-oriented semantic communication [21],
[44]. Hence, the encoder f(·) aims to extract and transmit
the data containing most semantic information and observable
information, while the decoder g(·) aims to reconstruct the
data related to the pragmatic task and the empirical data.
Also mentioned in [45] and [2], the coders take into account
both the semantic information and channel inﬂuence. Since
the empirical data K is known to both the transmitter and the
receiver, but the empirical pragmatic task Z is only available
to the receiver, hence the receiver will lead the training
process. By comparing the reconstructed data and raw data, the
receiver can teach the transmitter how to improve its encoder.
The detailed training process of the receiver-leading semantic
coding network and its loss function design will be described
later in Section IV.
The second stage is the working stage, which is after
enough observable data S is collected. In this stage, the
function GK(·) is trained to convert S into a similar form
of the empirical data K, so that the well-trained encoder
f(·) can still extract and transmit the semantic information
without re-training. The network of GK(·) is called the data
adaptation network. A discriminator is introduced to help this
conversion. When the discriminator is unable to distinguish
the converted data and the empirical data from the library
set, the converter is regarded as good enough. In this training
process, no information on the pragmatic task is required.
Hence the second stage of training can be conducted locally
at the transmitter end, without communication to the receiver.
The detailed architecture of the data adaptation network and
its loss function design will be described later in Section V.
IV. THE SEMANTIC CODING NETWORK
In this section, we give a detailed illustration of the semantic
coding network, including the receiver-leading training process
in Section IV-A, where the training strategy and algorithm
are proposed; and the corresponding loss function design
in Section IV-B, where both the theoretic loss function and
explicit training function for each epoch are provided.
A. Semantic Coding Network Training
The system ﬂow for semantic coding is shown in Fig. 2.
The semantic encoder f(·) aims to extract and transmit the
information which can recover observable information and are
most correlated with the pragmatic task Z, and the decoder
g(·) aims to reconstruct the empirical data correspondingly.
We model the encoder fθ1(·) and decoder gθ2(·) as two deep
neural networks (DNNs), where θ1 and θ2 are two sets of
network parameters, respectively. Here there is no speciﬁc
requirement on the network architecture.
The training process is as follows. In each training epoch
t ∈{1, 2, · · ·}, the transmitter draws samples of K from
library dataset K uniformly at random to form a training batch
Kt. For each sample K ∈Kt, the transmitter encodes it
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
174
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 41, NO. 1, JANUARY 2023
Fig. 2.
Illustration of the semantic coding part in the proposed semantic communication system.
Algorithm 1 Semantic Coding Training Algorithm
1: Set epoch counter t = 1.
2: while the training stop condition is not met do
3:
Take a batch of the samples Kt ⊂K (transmitter)
4:
Encode and send all X = fθ1,t (K) in Kt (transmitter).
5:
Decode data K = gθ2,t (Y ) (receiver).
6:
Z = φ

K

(receiver).
7:
Calculate the gradients ∇θ2L(T ) based on (2) and update
gθ2(·) (receiver).
8:
Calculate the gradient ∇Y L (receiver).
9:
Sends ∇Y L and Y to the transmitter (receiver).
10:
Calculate E∼Tt [∇θ1L] based on (1) and update fθ1 (·)
(transmitter).
11:
t = t + 1.
12: end while
as X = fθ1,t (K) and then sends the encoded signal X to
the receiver. Hence the receiver can obtain reconstructed data
K = gθ2,t (Y ) and the corresponding reconstructed pragmatic
output Z = φ

K

. Meanwhile, the receiver is also aware of
the original sample K and the ground-truth pragmatic output
Z of K. Hence, a complete training sample is deﬁned as a
tuple T ≜(K, K, Z, Z), and a collection of these samples
form a complete random training batch, which is denoted as
Tt. As a remark, all contents in the complete training sample
Tt are fully available to the receiver, while the transmitter only
has the data in training batch Kt.
Our goal is to ﬁnd the optimal encoding and decoding
functions so that the loss of both semantic information
and observable information can be minimized. Equivalently,
it is to optimize the parameters θ1 and θ2. We call this
loss function semantic distortion (SD) and denote it as
L(K, K, Z, Z), or L(T ) for short. When the average gra-
dients over the training batch denoted as E∼Tt [∇θ1L] and
E∼Tt [∇θ2L] are known by the transmitter and receiver respec-
tively, we can utilize the Adam algorithm [46] to update the
parameters as
θi,t+1 = θi,t −η
ρt
√νt + ϵ
(i ∈{1, 2}),
(3)
where ρt and νt are the ﬁrst and second order momenta of
gradients, respectively, ϵ is a smooth term to prevent the
denominator of the second term from being zero, and η is
the learning rate.
Next, we will present how to obtain E∼Tt [∇θ1L] and
E∼Tt [∇θ2L], which is the essential issue. As mentioned, the
complete training samples are available at the receiving end,
hence ∇θ2L(T ) for each sample T can be readily obtained by
the receiver as (2), shown at the bottom of the page. However,
the transmitter only has the information of K, so it requires
the receiver to feedback some necessary values in order to
obtain ∇θ1L(T ). According to the chain rule, the gradient
of loss function over the encoder network parameter, namely
∇θ1L(K, K, Z, Z), can be derived as (1), shown at the bottom
of the page. Speciﬁcally, the item in the ﬁrst underbrace, i.e.,
the gradient of the loss function with respect to the channel
output, can be calculated numerically at the receiver end, and
then sent to the transmitter. Meanwhile, since θ1 is unknown
to the receiver, the receiver sends the channel output Y back to
the transmitter and lets the transmitter compute ∇θ1Y locally,
i.e., the second term in (1). Hence the feedback content can
be written as the data tuple {∇Y L(T ), Y }. We can see that
no direct information about the pragmatic function is leaked
to the transmitter, which ensures a weak level of security. That
is, knowing ∇Y L alone is not sufﬁcient for the transmitter to
determine the pragmatic use of its transmitted data. In addition,
from the information-theoretic security perspective, though
secrecy is a quantitative problem, our proposed feedback
method is still secure enough to prevent privacy leakage when
the size of the transmitted data is sufﬁciently larger than that
of the pragmatic output as shown in [47].
Besides, since the transmitter and receiver are regarded as
unequal participants in our model, where the receiver is the
dominant one with more communication resources and data
authorization privilege, we assume that the receiver has enough
power to enjoy a noiseless feedback channel noiseless.
The above training procedure is outlined in Algorithm 1.
Since the NNs are trained over epochs, here we deﬁne fθ1,t (·)
and gθ2,t (·) as the encoding and decoding functions of the
t-epoch, which will converge with the training process. Note
that the pragmatic function φ(·) is assumed known by the
receiver in advance, as we already mentioned in Section III.
∇θ1(Lθ1,θ2(K, K, Z, Z)) = ∇Y (Lθ1,θ2(K, K, Z, Z))


	
at the receiver
·
∇θ1Y
  	
at the transmitter
(1)
∇θ2(Lθ1,θ2(K, K, Z, Z)) = ∇
 K(Lθ1,θ2(K, K, Z, Z)) · ∇θ2 K
(2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEP LEARNING-ENABLED SEMANTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
175
B. Loss Function Design for Semantic Coding
Compared with the traditional coding system, an essential
difference of semantic communication is that not only the
performance of traditional data recovery but also the perfor-
mance for further pragmatic use are required. In the work
of Liu et. al. [6], the semantic source coding is modeled
as a rate-distortion problem, where there are two distor-
tion constraints for recovering semantic information S and
observable information X respectively. Many other existing
works on NN-based semantic communication systems [8],
[15] also follow this idea. The loss function of these neural
networks all contains both items of semantic information loss
and observable information loss, in the KL divergence or
quadratic measure of information difference. In the considered
task-unaware semantic communication system, we inherit this
binary structure with both semantic information and observ-
able information.
With the information of {∇Y L(T ), Y } sent back from the
receiver, the transmitter can adjust its encoding neural network
accordingly. That is to say, the transmitter can learn the
encoding function that contains the most semantic information,
without exactly knowing what the semantic information is.
Next, we will deﬁne semantic distortion mathematically.
Deﬁnition 1: Consider the scenario where the semantic
encoder and decoder are jointly optimized. The loss function
is deﬁned as semantic distortion (SD), which is expressed as
Lθ1,θ2(K, K, Z, Z) ≜λαDob(K, K) + (1 −λ)Dpr(Z, Z),
(4)
where Dob and Dpr are distortion measure functions for
observable information and pragmatic output respectively
(which can be the KL divergence, cross entropy, the mean
square error (MSE), etc.), α is a hyper-parameter to scale the
value of distortion Dob for the alignment with the dynamic
range of distortion Dpr, when their deﬁnitions are different,
and λ is a hyper-parameter to tradeoff the observation infor-
mation and pragmatic information.
We would like to emphasize that semantic information is
determined by speciﬁc tasks, instead of being an intrinsic fea-
ture of the source. Therefore, we consider both the observable
information and pragmatic information simultaneously in the
deﬁnition of the loss function. In addition, our deﬁned SD is
a generic metric where Dpr can be extended to multi-task or
multi-semantic scenarios.
With the given training dataset, we can deﬁne the empirical
form of the loss function as follows.
Deﬁnition 2: Given a training batch T as a collection of
training sample T = (K, Z, K, Z), the empirical semantic
distortion (ESD) is deﬁned as
L{θ1,θ2},E∼T ≜λαE∼T

Dob(K, K)

+(1 −λ)E∼T

Dpr(Z, Z)

,
(5)
where E∼T (·) is the expectation w.r.t. the empirical distribu-
tion of the training batch T .
Another important and practical issue is related to the
hyper-parameter λ in (4). The hyper-parameter λ balances the
pragmatic information and the observation information. The
main difﬁculty is that the tradeoff ratio is unclear. Thus, λ
can only be adjusted case by case manually. This is similar
to the way hyper-parameters are normally treated in machine
learning. In this paper, we propose a bouncy way to deﬁne the
initial value of λ.
Deﬁnition 3: A bouncy tradeoff hyper-parameter λs is
deﬁned as
λs = 1 −CR = 1 −log |ΓX|
log |ΓK|,
(6)
where ΓK and ΓX stand for the alphabet of observable K and
the encoded data X.
The λs gives us an initial value of hyper-parameter to start
adjusting from, but not a ﬁxed value in practical use. The
reason to pick this value is as follows. As a lossy joint source-
channel coding with a limited coding rate, the compression
rate of semantic communication takes values from [0, 1].
Besides, when the compression rate is large, our semantic
encoder has the option to encode the semantic information,
as well as the non-semantic information, and its performance
converges to the traditional encoder. While the compression
rate is small, the semantic encoder can give a high priority to
the semantic information, and converge to a pragmatic encoder
correspondingly.
According to the above deﬁnitions, the joint optimization
problem of fθ1 and gθ2 for a given compression rate constraint
CR0 can be written as
min
θ1,θ2 λαE∼T

Dob(K, K)

+(1−λ)E∼T

Dpr(Z, Z)

,
s.t. CR = CR0.
(7)
The speciﬁc function of distortion measure Dpr varies with
pragmatic tasks. In previous works, pragmatic tasks can be
classiﬁcation [48], detection [49], segmentation [50], genera-
tion [51], etc. Generally, the pragmatic tasks can be sorted into
two categories, based on whether the output of the pragmatic
function can be regarded as a discrete random variable or not.
When the pragmatic output is a discrete random variable wit
a ﬁnite alphabet, for example, the image classiﬁcation task,
Dob is often chosen to be MSE and Dpr is often chosen to
be the cross entropy (CE). Hence the optimization goal in (7)
can then be re-written as
min
θ1,θ2 λαE∼T [DMSE(K, gθ2 (fθ1 (K)))]


	
recovery task for observable information
+(1 −λ)E∼T [DCE(Z, φ (gθ2 (fθ1 (K))))]


	
classiﬁcation task for pragmatic information
,
(8)
where DMSE and DCE are MSE and CE w.r.t. the empirical
distribution of the training batch T , respectively. By taking
the speciﬁc expressions of DMSE and DCE into (8), ESD for
image classiﬁcation task can be represented as
L′
{θ1,θ2},E∼T =

T ∈T
λα∥K −K∥2
−(1 −λ)

i
p(Zi) log q(Zi),
(9)
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
176
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 41, NO. 1, JANUARY 2023
where p(Zi) and q(Zi) are the empirical likelihood probability
that K and K are classiﬁed to the i-th category respectively.
While the pragmatic output is not a discrete random variable
with a ﬁnite alphabet, for example, as in image segmentation
tasks, we set both Dob and Dpr to be MSE. Hence the ESD
can be written as
L′′
{θ1,θ2},E∼T =

T ∈T

λα∥K−K∥2−(1−λ)∥Z−Z∥2

, (10)
where Z and Z are matrices that are used to distinguish
different categories and have the same shape as K and K.
Numerical examples with image segmentation tasks can be
found in Section VI-A as well, which uses (10) as the loss
function.
The communication cost during the training process is
related to the size of raw data, compression rate, training
epochs, and the complexity of the decoder network. In order
to reduce the communication overhead during the training
process, the semantic encoder and decoder networks can be
pre-trained locally by minimizing the observation reconstruc-
tion loss E∼T

Dob(K, K)

at the receiver. When the pre-
training is completed, the receiver sends the parameters of the
encoder network to the transmitter. Then, the transmitter and
the receiver train the networks collectively with the whole loss
L{θ1,θ2},E∼T .
V. THE DATA ADAPTATION NETWORK
During the working stage of the considered semantic com-
munication system, when the observed dataset S is different
from the library dataset K, we propose data adaptation to
transfer the observable data to the library data without re-
training the semantic coding networks using the domain adap-
tation (DA) technique. In this section, we ﬁrst introduce the
architecture and algorithm of the data adaptation network and
then analyze its performance and feasibility.
A. Domain Adaptation Architecture
In this subsection, we apply cycle GAN (CGAN) [40] based
domain adaptation in transfer learning to realize the function
of data adaptation. It includes a novel architecture using the
corresponding loss function design. The main purpose of this
NN is to convert the observable data into a similar form of
library data so that the well-trained semantic coding network
can be re-used without further training.
In [12], transfer learning is also applied to overcome the
instability of the semantic communication system. Their strat-
egy is to freeze some parameters and only re-train the rest
part of them, so the re-training cost in communication and
computation is reduced. Compared to the previous work, there
are two major differences in our method. First, we introduce
the domain adaptation NN to pre-process the actually observed
data, while keeping the whole semantic coding network
unchanged. This domain adaptation NN can be trained locally
at the transmitter end, without any communication need with
the receiver. Second, the CGAN architecture design of our
method is for the purpose of image transmission, which has
proved its performance advantages in image processing [40],
Fig. 3.
Illustration of the data adaptation part in the proposed semantic
communication system.
[41], [42]. On the other hand, the transfer learning method
proposed in [12] is designed based on the architecture of the
transformer network, which is used for NLP tasks.
The architecture of the data adaptation network is shown in
Fig. 3. There is a function converting the observed dataset
into a similar representation of the library dataset called
generator GK(·). There is also a discriminator function DK(·)
to distinguish the library data K and the data converted from
observable data GK(S). When the discriminator is unable to
tell these two kinds of data apart, then the network is trained
well. Besides, there is also a reconverting function called
generator GS(·) and the corresponding discriminator DS(·).
The reconverting function is good enough if it can successfully
fool the discriminator DS(·) to confuse the observable data
and the data reconverted from library data. The two discrim-
inators feedback the differences between the generated data
and the ground-truth data to guide the updates of the two
generators, as shown in the red line. Note that though two pairs
of generators and discriminators are utilized in the training
process of DA, only GK(S) is needed in the inference stage.
We can see here in our architecture, that the generator
function and the discriminator function play the role of two
adversaries. Over the competition of the generator function
and the discriminator function, the output of the converter
becomes more and more similar to the library data, and the
output of the generator becomes more and more similar to
the observable data. Therefore, the GAN is applied as the
data adaptation network in CGAN. Correspondingly, our data
adaptation network can have the following advantages with
the deployment of CGAN.
• Does not require too many labeled training samples.
In the scenario where the transmitter does not have
a sufﬁcient number of pragmatic outputs given by the
receiver, this approach allows the transmitter to train
GANs. For example, self-supervised learning methods for
CGAN do not need labeled data, while semi-supervised
learning for SGAN only needs a small amount of labeled
data.
• Can re-use the semantic encoders. Since the encoder and
decoder for the previous dataset already exist, existing
coders can continue to be applied if the new dataset is
converted to the previous dataset. This method saves a
lot of communication costs in online learning for the new
semantic coders and the pragmatic function.
• Make semantic communication more scalable. Poor scala-
bility is a common issue in many existing semantic com-
munication systems. For datasets with similar semantic
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEP LEARNING-ENABLED SEMANTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
177
domains, the same framework and different individual
modules can be used to handle the tasks for these datasets.
Now, we introduce the detailed loss function design of the
data adaptation network. In this paper, we deﬁne the library
data K ∈K ∼plib(k) in the source domain and the observable
data S ∈S ∼ppro(s) in the target domain. The goal of CGAN
is to learn two functions GK(·) and GS(·) to implement two
mappings, i.e., GS : ΓK →ΓS and GK : ΓS →ΓK.
To accomplish this target, two adversarial discriminators DK
and DS are trained at the same time. The discriminator DK
aims to distinguish the real data K and the corresponding
generated data GK(S), and DS works correspondingly.
In conventional GAN [52], the adversarial loss is often
utilized to optimize the generator and the discriminator simul-
taneously. Speciﬁcally, the adversarial loss between GS and
DS, which is denoted as LS,GAN(GS, DS, K, S), is deﬁned
in (12), as shown at the bottom of the next page. Meanwhile,
the adversarial loss between GK and DK, which is denoted
as LK,GAN(GK, DK, K, S), is deﬁned accordingly in (13), as
shown at the bottom of the next page.
The two forward cycles in CGAN are K →GS(K) →
GK (GS(K)) ≈K and S →GK(S) →GS (GK(S)) ≈S.
The loss function of the forward cycles in CGAN is set to be
Lcycle(GK, GS, K, S)
= EK∼plib(k) [∥GK (GS(K))−K∥1]
+ES∼ppro(s) [∥GS (GK(S))−S∥1] ,
(15)
where ∥· ∥1 represents L1-norm. The whole objective func-
tion can then be written as in (14), shown at the bottom
of the next page, where DK and DS aim to maximize
LCGAN(GK, DK, GS, DS, K, S), while GK and GS need to
minimize it. That is,
min
GS max
DS min
GK max
DK LCGAN(GK, DK, GS, DS, K, S). (16)
The optimization problem in (16) can be iteratively solved
until the training stop condition is met. We present the training
process of CGAN in Algorithm 2.
As a remark, semi-supervised GAN (SGAN) [53] can also
be used here. CGAN can be used for cases when there is
no label with the target data, while SGAN is suitable for
cases when there are a few labels. There are also several other
differences between the deployment of SGAN and CGAN, but
in general, these two networks are quite similar. Hence, in this
paper, the detailed algorithm of SGAN is omitted.
B. Similarity Measure Between Two Datasets
This subsection ﬁrst provides a measure function of the
similarity between the library dataset and the observed dataset
for some particular pragmatic task. This measure function can
be an indicator of the potential gain of using DA. In general,
the less similar the two datasets are, the higher the potential
gain can DA bring. Then we also introduce a machine learning
method to approximate this measure function for numerical
evaluation.
We deﬁne the domain as a pair consisting of a distribution
p(·) on inputs and a labeling function υ(·) mapping the
Algorithm 2 Training Algorithm for the Data Adaptation
Networks
1: Initialize the two generators GK, GS, two discriminators
DK, DS, epoch t = 1, and batch size V .
2: while the training stop condition is not met do
3:
Randomly select V samples K in K ∼plib(k) and V
samples S in S ∼ppro(s).
4:
Generate
fake
pairs
[GS(K), GK (GS(K))],
[GK(S), GS (GK(S))].
5:
Utilize DS and DK to get LS,GAN and LK,GAN, respec-
tively.
6:
Calculate Lcycle by (16).
7:
Combining LS,GAN, LK,GAN, and Lcycle to get LCGAN.
8:
Update {GK, GS} by some iterative optimization algo-
rithm to minimize LCGAN.
9:
Update {DK, DS} by some iterative optimization algo-
rithm to maximize LCGAN.
10: end while
inputs to [0, 1]n, where n is the feature dimensions. For
example, when the pragmatic task is digit classiﬁcation, the
function υ(·) can be the ground truth of whether the image
is of a particular number. The domain of the library dataset
and observation space can be denoted as {plib, υlib} and
{ppro, υpro}, respectively. We also deﬁne the hypothesis as the
indicator function h : K →{0, 1}n, which can be regarded as
an extreme case of the labeling function. Then the difference
between the two labeling functions υ and υ′ over the library
set can be deﬁned as [54]
ϵlib(υ, υ′) ≜Ek∼plib [|υ(k) −υ′(k)|] ,
(17)
and
ϵpro(υ, υ′)
can
be
deﬁned
accordingly.
Moreover,
a metric of the difference between two datasets called
HΔH-divergence can also be deﬁned as follow.
Deﬁnition 4: The
discrepancy
measure
between
the
domains of the library and observed datasets, which is called
HΔH-divergence, can be deﬁned as
dHΔH ≜2 sup
h,h′∈H
Ek∼plib1[h(k) ̸= h′(k)]
−Es∼ppro1[h(s) ̸= h′(s)]

(18)
= 2 sup
h,h′∈H
|ϵk∼plib(h, h′) −ϵs∼ppro(h, h′)| (19)
≥2|ϵk∼plib(h, h′) −ϵs∼ppro(h, h′)|,
(20)
where 1[·] is the indicator function, h and h′ are two
hypotheses, H is the hypothesis space. Besides, the symmetric
difference hypothesis space HΔH is the set of hypotheses that
satisfy
β ∈HΔH ⇔β(k) = h(k) ⊕h′(k),
(21)
for all h, h′ ∈H, where ⊕is the XOR function and β is
an indicator function in the symmetric difference hypothesis
space HΔH.
Here the lower bound of HΔH-divergence in (20) can
be regarded as the total variation between two probability
functions, which denote the error probability of decoding the
pragmatic output of library data and observed data respec-
tively. Hence, (20) means that for a ﬁxed hypothesis space H,
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
178
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 41, NO. 1, JANUARY 2023
dHΔH(K, S) is the intrinsic difference between the domains
of the library and observed datasets, which is ﬁxed and
determined by the characteristics of the data distributions.
Speciﬁcally, if the pragmatic outputs in K and S are almost
the same, dHΔH(K, S) will be small. Otherwise, this item will
increase with the difference in the pragmatic outputs in the two
domains. Therefore, we select datasets with the same category
as each other in the experiment, such as the USPS and MNIST
datasets. Since the data in both domains are available at the
transmitter, the transmitter can easily ﬁgure out the differences
between different domains. In general, (20) provides guidance
on when to trigger the data adaptation network and whether
the semantic communication system needs to be retrained.
Besides
the
lower
bound
introduced
above,
HΔH-divergence
between
plib
and
ppro
can
also
be
tightly approximated by the so-called proxy A-distance
(PAD). PAD follows a machine learning method. Speciﬁcally,
we ﬁrst construct a new dataset as
K = {(ki, 0)}ki∼plib ∪{(sj, 1)}sj∼ppro,
(22)
where {(ki, 0)}ki∼plib
denotes the
set
of samples fol-
lowing distribution plib, which are labeled as zero, and
{(sj, 1)}sj∼ppro is deﬁned similarly. Then, a binary classiﬁer
is trained on a subset of the newly constructed dataset K.
As suggested by previous works [54], [55], linear classiﬁers
can be used here, such as SVM, MLP, linear CNN, etc.
Suppose the classiﬁcation error is ϵ, then PAD is deﬁned as
dA ≜2(1 −2ϵ).
(23)
It can be seen that the smaller dA is, the more similar these
two domains are.
Note that as a machine learning method, PAD serves as a
good approximation of HΔH-divergence and is convenient
for numerical evaluation. Some experimental results shall be
given later in Section VI-B.
VI. NUMERICAL EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we validate the performance of the semantic
coding part and the data adaptation part, respectively. Gener-
ally speaking, both the bit-wise performance and the semantic
performance are tested under different compression rate CR at
different channel conditions. Detailed setups will be given for
each speciﬁc experiment respectively. As a remark, according
to the information bottleneck theory [56], compared with the
convolution function of the convolutional layers or the linear
function of fully connected layers, activation functions of NNs
can lead to greater amounts of information loss. Therefore,
the NNs of the semantic coders do not contain activation
functions in our experiments. An additional normalization
layer is also added at the semantic encoder output to ensure
the transmit power constraint. Throughout the experiments, the
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the AWGN channel is set to be
3dB and 10dB, representing the low and high SNR regimes,
respectively.
A. Experiments on Semantic Coding Network
In this subsection, we evaluate our semantic coding net-
work on three representative experiments, namely handwritten
digit recognition on the MNIST dataset, image classiﬁcation
on the CIFAR-10 dataset, and image segmentation on the
PASCAL-VOC2012 dataset, respectively. For comparison, two
benchmark schemes are considered. The ﬁrst one is the tradi-
tional separate source-channel coding (SSCC) which employs
JPEG2000 [57] for image compression and capacity-achieving
codes for reliable channel transmission at the rate
1
2 log
(1 + SNR) bits per channel use. Hence, the compression rate
of JPEG2000 should be the compression rate of our proposed
neural network encoder times
1
2 log(1 + SNR). The second
one is the variational auto-encoder (VAE)-based semantic
communication [58] with the KL divergence loss, which is
written as the VAE-based method for convenience. Note that
we choose VAE instead of a standard autoencoder since VAE
can better respond to the effects of noise as shown in the
existing experiments [58], [59].
1) Semantic Communication for MNIST Digit Recognition:
The MNIST dataset consists of 60,000 images with each
being handwritten numbers with 28×28 grayscale pixels [60].
Among the dataset, 50,000 images are used for training, and
the rest 10,000 images are used for testing.
The pragmatic function φ(·) used at the receiver for digit
recognition is trained in advance using the ground-truth label.
In our method, the encoding and decoding neural networks
are both with one fully connected layer. In the VAE-based
method, the encoding and decoding neural networks are both
with two fully connected layers. We use two important criteria
to evaluate the performance of different methods, namely, the
accuracy of digit recognition for the pragmatic task and the
peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) for image reconstruction.
Fig. 4 compares the performance of our method with
benchmark schemes in terms of recognition accuracy and
PSNR against compression rates. It is seen from Fig. 4(a) that,
the proposed method has the highest accuracy among all the
considered schemes when CR is less than 0.4, and the VAE
method performs the worst at all different CR. This is because
the proposed loss function can weight the importance of
observable information and pragmatic information according
LS,GAN(GS, DS, K, S) = ES∼ppro(s)[log DS(S)] + EK∼plib(k) [log (1 −DS(GS(K)))]
(11)
=

S
ppro(s) log DS(S) +

K
plib(k) log DS(GS(K))
(12)
LK,GAN(GK, DK, K, S) =

K
plib(k) log DK(K) +

S
ppro(s) log DK(GK(S))
(13)
LCGAN(GK, DK, GS, DS, K, S) = LS,GAN(GK, DK, K, S) + LK,GAN(GS, DS, K, S) + Lcycle(GK, GS, K, S)
(14)
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 10 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEP LEARNING-ENABLED SEMANTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
179
Fig. 4.
Performance comparison with the MNIST dataset.
to different compression rates. When CR is low, the proposed
scheme will give priority to ensuring the performance of tasks,
i.e., the accuracy of digit recognition. When CR is greater
than 0.2, there is a minor difference between the proposed
method and the JPEG2000-based method, for both 3dB and
10dB SNR. In particular, when CR ∈[0.1, 0.4], the recognition
accuracy of the proposed method is better, while when CR ∈
[0.6, 0.9], the recognition accuracy of the JPEG2000-based
method is slightly better. In general, the advantages of the
proposed method are not obvious in this case. This is because
the samples in the MNIST data set are so simple that they can
be encoded at a very low compression rate with negligible
information loss, making the performance advantage of JSCC
very minor over SSCC.
Meanwhile, we can see from Fig. 4(b) that, the proposed
method has no performance advantage in terms of PSNR at
both 3dB and 10bB SNR. On
the other hand, the VAE
method has the best PSNR performance at 10dB SNR, and
JPEG2000-based method performs the best when CR
∈
[0.2, 0.9] at 3dB SNR and CR ∈[0.6, 0.9] at 10dB SNR.
However, we can see the PSNR performance of our method
increases with the growth of CR, and gradually close to
the best performed method. This phenomenon coincides with
the loss function design of the proposed method. Combining
with the results in Fig. 4(a), we can see the priority trade-
off between pragmatic task and image reconstruction in the
proposed method. When the compression is low, the priority
of pragmatic tasks will damage the performance of image
reconstruction. But when CR is high, the focus of the encoder
Fig. 5.
Performance comparison with the CIFAR10 dataset.
in the proposed method will return to image reconstruction,
and its PSNR performance can exceed that of other methods.
2) Semantic Communication for CIFAR-10 Image Classiﬁ-
cation: The CIFAR-10 dataset [61] consists of 60,000 RGB
images with size 32×32 in 10 classes, with 6,000 images per
class. Among the dataset, 50,000 images are used for training
and the rest 10,000 images are used for testing. The pragmatic
use here is image classiﬁcation. Hence, here we still use the
accuracy and the PSNR as the criteria to compare.
Fig. 5(a) plots the test classiﬁcation accuracy under different
compression rates. We can see that the proposed method has
the best performance among the three methods with low CR,
and is very robust to the change of CR at both 3dB and 10dB
SNR. In particular, the classiﬁcation accuracy of the proposed
method is still as high as 93% when CR is 0.1 at 3dB SNR,
while the accuracy of the JPEG2000 method and the VAE
method is only 91.8% and 82.4% respectively, at the same
compression rate and same channel condition. This is because
the image in CIFAR10 is more complicated than that in
MNIST, and classifying images in CIFAR10 is more difﬁcult
than digit recognition. Hence the classiﬁcation accuracy cannot
be guaranteed, unless the reconstructed image is very close
to the raw image, like the situation of the JPEG2000-based
method with a high compression rate, or taking image classi-
ﬁcation as a target in encoding, like the proposed method.
Fig. 5(b) plots the PSNR against compression rates. It is
seen that the proposed method has the best PSNR performance
when CR is low. When CR is high, the JPEG2000-based
method has the best PSNR performance. We can still
see the tradeoff between pragmatic performance and image
Authorized licensed use limited to: LNM Institute of Information Technology. Downloaded on May 12,2025 at 05:10:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

